Internet Protocol Suite:
The Internet Protocol (IP) suite is a fundamental framework for computer networking. It is a model that defines how data is transferred over networks, ensuring reliable communications between devices, plus some security features. The IP suite model has 4 abstraction layers: Link, Internet, Transport, and Application. Each layer has a specific function that manages a different aspect of the process behind network communication.
- Link Layer:
  The Link layer is a group of applications requiring network communications. This layer is responsible for generating the data and requesting connections. It acts on behalf of the sender and the Link layer.
- Internet Layer:
  This layer defines the protocols that are responsible for the transmission of data packets over the entire network. The main protocols on this layer are:
    > IP: Which stands for Internet Protocol, and is responsible for delivering data from source host to the destination host by looking at the IP addresses in the packet headers.
    > ICMP: ICMP stands for Internet Control Message Protocol. It is encapsulated within the IP datagrams and is responsible for providing hosts with information about network problems.
    > ARP: Address Resolution Protocol. Its job is to find the MAC address of a known IP address.
- The Internet layer is responsible for routing packets of data from one device to another across a network. It does this by assigning each device an unique IP address, which is used to identify the device and determine the route the packet should take to reach it.
- Transport Layer:
  This layer exchanges data receipt acknowledgements and retransmit missing packets to ensure that packets arrive in order and without error. TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) and UDP (User Datagram Protocol) are the transport layer protocols.
    > TCP: Applications can interact with one another using TCP as though they were physically connected by a circuit. TCP transmits data in a way that resembles character-to-character transmission rather than whole packets. A starting point that establishes the connection, the whole transmission in byte order, and an ending point that closes the connection make up this connection.
    > UDP: The datagram delivery service is provided by UDP. Connections between hosts are not verified by UDP. Applications that send little data use UDP rather than TCP because it eliminates the process of establishing and validating connections, which can make UDP quicker.
- Application Layer:
  This layer is responsible for end-to-end communication and error-free delivery of data. The main protocols in this layer are:
    > HTTP: HyperText Transfer Protocol. Used by WWW to manage communications between web browsers and servers.
    > SSH: Secure Shell. It is a terminal emulations software similar to Telnet. The reason SSH is preferred is because of its ability to maintain the encrypted connection. It sets up a secure session.

TCP handshake:
  TCP uses a three-way handshake to set up a TCP/IP connection over an IP based network. It is used to establish a reliable connection, and ensures that both   parties are synchronized and ready for to communicate. During the TCP handshake, three messages are transmitted by TCP to negotiate and start a TCP session. Those three messages are: SYN, SYN-ACK, and ACK.
    > SYN (SYNchronize): The initiating computer sends a synchronized sequence number packet to the receiving computer with a value set to an arbitrary number to "ask" if there is any connections open.
    > SYN-ACK (SYNchronize-ACKnowledgement): If the receiving computer does have an open connection, it sends back a SYN-ACK (acknowledging the synchronize) packet to the initiating computer.
    > ACK (ACKnowledgement): The initiating computer then sends an acknowledgment sequence number packet back to the receiving computer, acknowledging the receipt of the SYN-ACK packet. With this final step, the connection is established and the data transmission can begin.

2 HTTP Protocols:
  GET request, which asks for data from the server based on client input: A user types "https://www.example.com" into their web browser to access the homepage of the website.
  Process:
    > The browser generates a GET request for the resource at the given URL. This request is sent to the server hosting that website. The server process the GET request and looks for the requested resource (such as a HTML file, image, or CSS file). If the resource is found, the server responds with a HTTP response status code (200 OK), or if the resource is not found it will respond with a different status code (404 Not Found). The browser will then interpret the HTML, render it, and display on the screen.
  POST request, which sends something to the server. For example, an user filling out a login form, which submits their username and password.
  Process:
    > The browser generates a POST request with the login form data (username, email, password, etc). This POST request is sent to the web server at a specified URL (for example, /login). The server receives the POST request, extracts the data from the body, and processes it (checking if the password supplied with the username matches with what is in the web server). If it matches, HTTP response code status of 200 OK, if not 403 Forbidden along with an error message. The browser will then render new HTML if it is unsuccessful (403 Forbidden) telling the user the password/username is wrong, or if it was successful, redirects the user to a new page.

IoT and NCP:
  Network Control Protocols are critical for managing and controlling communication in the IoT. IoT consists of many devices that communicate with each         other, often using a variety of protocols to ensure efficient, secure, and reliable data transfer. NCP (Network Control Protocols) provide those necessary    mechanisms to manage these communications, ensuring that data flows correctly and devices interact effectively.
